Alright, in this video
we are going to take a look at setting up
the MySQL database and up on the screen there,
what I have is a file that I'm going to
add into the source and you'll see it under scripts
and the SQL files configured mysql.sql
and you'll be able to use the commands
in here to set things up.
Now, it's optional for you to run MySQL locally,
installed on your whatever operating
system you're working under or,
as we just saw on the Docker stuff,
we can run it in a Docker container
and on line two there, I'm giving you
a command to start up MySQL and I'm going to
copy that over right now, and come over to the command line
and go ahead and paste that in.
Oh, already in use, so I got to give
it a unique name, like I said,
I do run several containers here,
so I'm just going to do v3, give it a unique name to my system.
Now we can see that is up, and do a docker...
Spell docker right, ps I can see that container
is up and running, so listening on the
default port of 3306 of MySQL.
Now the, MySQL client that I like to use is,
Sequel pro, there's a lot of different clients out there,
so this is just my particular choice on the Mac.
I find it works quite nicely.
You can go to command line or use the client of your choice.
Now, the first thing that we want to do here,
is we're going to create a couple databases.
I'm going to copy these commands over
and we'll just paste that in and I'm going to
highlight that all and say, run selection.
Now we see that there is no errors down there
at the bottom of the screen.
So now the database is created
and we can see here that they are being
listed in Sequel pro for us.
The next thing we want to do is create our user accounts.
Now this is standard SQL here,
it's creating a user at localhost
and identified by guru, is actually setting the password,
so that is a SQL standard, as far as
identified by, so if you're not familiar with SQL,
that's create user and that's the username
and we're saying identified by guru,
as a password, so I'm going to copy that over
and we'll jump over to Sequel pro and paste that in,
and highlight all this, so now I have
those two users created and now,
we want to do the database grants.
So we can see that we're doing select,
answer, delete and update, so these two user accounts
will only be able to do DML operations,
we don't want them doing anything else
and this is kind of standard security for database
and we'll see this a lot more in Enterprise use,
where you're going to be creating service accounts
that have a minimal amount of access.
So copy that over, and I'm just going to paste that
and I'm going to highlight all this and say, run selection.
And now, those grants have completed
and now, let's go ahead and take a look at the
database and this is a specific Sequel pro,
other MySQL tools can do this as well.
Going to take a quick look at the user accounts so,
now we can see that the root user was created
by the Docker container that we're using,
that we'll set up without a password.
You definitely want to secure your root account,
but this is just a Docker container on my box so,
it's okay to have a blank password
for the root SQL user, definitely would not
do this in production, but now we can see
our sfg_dev_ user, we can see he doesn't have
any global privileges, but if I click on the
dev schema, you can see that he does have these.
Now these are other privileges here
and you can see the service count
isn't going to be needing to create like a view
or temporary tables or grant anything or lock tables.
These are all things that we don't want him doing.
You can see that sfg_dev has these privileges,
but if we look at the prod schema, he doesn't
and then, inversely for the sfg_prod_user,
if we look at the schema privileges,
he's got grant privileges on sfg_prod,
the databases of sfg_prod, but of course,
he doesn't have any privileges on the dev database so,
this is kind of standard and going forward in the course,
what we're going to do, is we're going to create a
dev profile and set it up to use the sfg_dev_user
and also, prod profile to emulate a production database
and we'll set it up in the connection
to use the sfg_prod database and our database schemes.
Or I should say, our local MySQL database.
Okay, I need to mend this just briefly here,
especially if you're using Docker
and this is kind of how MySQL works,
it looks at a user account coming from localhost
or from a specific IP address.
Now, if you're running inside of a Docker container,
you're going to run into a little bit of trouble here,
if you do not set this up, so on line 12 there,
12 and 13, I'm adding to the script,
a percent sign for the host.
What this is, is a wild card, means from any host,
so, when you connect to the Docker container,
you're going to be coming from a different IP address
in the eyes of MySQL. So what we had to do here
is add in, create that same service account
with the wild card for the host
and then down on line 24 to 31,
we're also doing the wild card for the host
to set up those grants and this will get you running,
especially if you're running inside of a Docker container,
so, just a quick amendment to the source code here,
but I am going to check that in and you'll
have that available for your reference.